Expeditious Activity Torma Offering
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Purify and multiply the offering tormas by reciting “Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ” and “Oṃ āḥ hūṃ ha ho hrīḥ!”
three times.
hung, ku sum shyingkham rabjam né
Hūṃ. Out of the infinite realms of the three kāyas,
tensung mahakala ni
Appears Mahākāla, guardian of the teachings,
palden dorjé gur gyi gön
Glorious Vajra Pañjaranātha,
yumchen ekadzati dang
The Great Mother Ekajaṭī,
lhamo dökham wangchukma
Īśvarī, Goddess of the Desire Realm,
damchen pu tra mingsing dang
Oath-bound Putra, brother and sister,
nyen gön chenpo shyal shyipa
Great Four-faced Caturmukha, Protector of Nyen,
yumchen singmo shyi lasok
The Great Mother, Four Sisters and the rest—
tensung khor dang chepa nam
Guardians of the teachings together with their retinues,
chötor serkyem gyachen dang
Through this vast offering torma and golden drink,
tendzé kangdzé drubdzé sok
Support, fulfilment and accomplishment substances, and so on—
ngöjor yitrul pakmé kyi
May these boundless offerings, actual and emanated by the mind,
mahakalé tukdam kang
Fulfil the wishes of Mahākāla,
ekadzati tukdam kang
Fulfil the wishes of Ekajaṭī,
dökham lhamö tukdam kang
Fulfil the wishes of the Desire Realm Goddess,
shyingkyong wangchuk dong shyipa
Delight and fulfil the exacting demands
yumchen singmo shyi dangché
Of Caturmukha, powerful lord and kṣetrapāla,
tukdam nyenpo gyepar kang
And of the Great Mother and four sisters,
kadö gyü sum drekpé tsok
Fulfil the wishes of all attendant deities and arrogant spirits
khor dang chepé tukdam kang
Of the three classes of tantra, together with their retinues.
tuk dang galtrul nyamchak shak
I confess my offences, confusions, impairments and breakages.
sangye ten dang tendzin nam
Carry out your activity of causing the teachings
dar shying gyepé trinlé dzö
And the holders of the teachings to prosper and flourish,
dakchak yönchö khor ché la
For us practitioners, our patrons and those around us,
jepur bötong nöpa dok
Avert all harm through sorcery and spell-casting,
jungpo dukpé mi tsé shying
Prevent the violence of malevolent spirits,
né rim khön truk shyiwa dang
Pacify disease, enmity and conflict,
tsering nemé paljor gyé
Improve vitality and health, increase affluence,
chi sam yishyin drubpa dang
Fulfil our every wish, just as we desire,
tashi delek püntsok shok
Make everything perfectly auspicious, virtuous and well.
taktu mindral sung kyob dzö
And without ever parting, guard and watch over us.

In response to a request, accompanied by an offering of divine silk, from the ḍākinī Tsering
Chödrön, who needed just such a practice, I, Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in the presence of the
wish-fulfilling jewel sé-mask in the protectors’ temple at Sakya. May it become imbued
with great blessings and significance. Maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gtor bsngo phrin las myur mgyogs/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 11:
57–58