Swift Enlightened Activity
A Concise Ceremony of Offering and Prayer to Mahākāla and Consort
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

namaḥ śrī-mahākālāya
If you wish to perform an extremely brief torma offering to Vajra-Mahākāla and his retinue should
arrange whatever offering tormas are available and then recite:
om lé rap yang kapala yi nö
From oṃ appears the vessel of the perfectly expansive kapāla,
ah lé sha nga dütsi ngapo nam
From āḥ the five meats and five nectars appear,
hum gi zakmé yeshé dütsir gyur
And are transformed with hūṃ into immaculate wisdom nectar,
ha ho hrih yi namkha nyampar pel
Then, through ha, ho and hrīḥ, this expands to fill the whole of space.
om ah hum ha ho hrih
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ ha ho hrīḥ
Three times
hum, ogmin né dang gyagar dorjé den
From the realm of Akaniṣṭha and the Vajra Seat (Bodh Gaya) in India,
silwa tsal sok né yul dur trö né
From the Cool Grove and other sacred places and charnel grounds,
ten sung tsowo dorjé gur gyi gön
Come, Vajra-Pañjaranātha, foremost guardian of the teachings,
ekadzati palden lhamo dang
And Ekajaṭī, Śrīdevī (Palden Lhamo),
shying kyong wangchuk nö jin yap dang yum
Almighty Kṣetrapāla, the father and mother yakṣa consorts,
putrabhatra singmo durtrö dak
Putrabhadra, Bhaginī, Citipati,
nö jin chamsing la sok gyü sum gyi
The yakṣa sisters, and others—
sungma damchen gyatso khor ché nam
An ocean-like assembly of oath-bound guardians of the three classes of tantra, along with their
retinues.
dam dzé dütsi chö tor chenpo dang
To you all, we offer these samaya substances, this great offering-torma of nectar,
gyépé chen zik tuk dam kangwé dzé
And these delightful gifts, substances that fulfil our sacred bond,
sa dang namkha bar nang khyabpa di
Filling the whole of the earth, the heavens and space between.
gyepar shyé la gyalten rinpoché
Accept these with delight, and carry out your activity,
mi nup dar shying gyepé trinlé dzö
Ensuring that the precious teachings of the buddhas never wane, but flourish and spread!
dé la khuwé lha min la lö tsok
Cause the asuras, barbarians and those who are hostile to the teachings
tsa bur mé shyin talwé dul du lok
To be reduced to dust, like dry grass consumed in a fiery blaze!
nyur du tsé né jompar dzé du sol
Swiftly bring about their eradication, their annihilation, we pray!
naljor dak chak khor dang chepa nam
Care for us, the yogic practitioners and all those around us,
bu chik ma shyin tsewé kyongwa dang
Lovingly, as a mother cares for her only child,
gang sam tamché bemé nyur du drup
And cause all our wishes to be effortlessly fulfilled.
di chiwar do küntu sung kyop dzö
Protect us and provide us with refuge always—in this life, future lives, and the bardo state.
rangrig palden lama nakpo ché
Cause us to behold the true face of the glorious Guru Mahākāla,
rang shyal jal té dorjé chang gi sar
Our very own rigpa, and thereby swiftly reach the state of Vajradhara,
nyur du drö né dro nam drol nü pé
And grant us the supreme and common accomplishments,
chok tün ngödrup tsolwé trinlé dzö
Including the capacity to liberate all beings!

In response to a request, accompanied by a silken scarf, from Sogyal, son of the Lakar family,
Gönpo Tseten, and the attendant Tashi Namgyal, I, Chökyi Lodrö, wrote this in the presence
of the actual wisdom Mahākāla in the Gorum temple at glorious Sakya.1 May it bring virtue
and goodness. Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey 2017 on the basis of an earlier version by Lama Chökyi Nyima (Richard
Barron).

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "nag po chen po lcam dral gyi mchod gsol bsdus pa phrin
las myur 'grub/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 11: 59–60
↑ The Gorum (sgo rum) temple at Sakya is the site of the sacred ‘flying black hide mask’ image
of Mahākāla, which was installed by Sachen Kunga Nyingpo in 1120.