The Fulfilment of All Wishes
Prayer and Entrustment of Activity to the Glorious Guru Mahākāla Pañjaranātha
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

om, lama nakpo chenpor la chaktsal lo
Oṃ. I prostrate before the Guru Mahākāla!
ah, gyalwé trinlé gakpa mepa dang
Āḥ. Help me to realize how the victorious ones’ activity is unending,
hung, gang tuk kyemé chöying tokpar dzö
Hūṃ. And your wisdom mind is the unborn dharmadhātu.
hrih, damtsik denpé naljor dakchak gi
Hrīḥ. We practitioners who maintain the samaya,
nakpo khyé la miché dé mö kyi
In our unwavering faith and devotion for you, O Kāla,
solwa kha tsam minpar nying né deb
Offer not just empty mouthing but heartfelt prayer:
dak sok lam gyi barché shyiwa dang
Pacify anything that obstructs our path,
yi la chi sam tamché drubpar dzö
And fulfil our each and every wish.

gangshyik drenpa tsam gyi dü dé dang
At the mere thought of you, let the hosts of demons,
nyikdü gyalgong shi dré damsi tsok
Gyalgong, ghosts, and damsi spirits of this degenerate age
dul du lok shik dorjé nakpo ché
Be crushed as if to dust, O Vajra Mahākāla.
gur gyi gönpor tutob pung kyé dzö
As Pañjaranātha, marshal the forces of power and strength.

khyepar shintu nyikmé dü diru
At this exceptionally disruptive time in particular,
gyalwé ten dang dé dzin kyebu dang
Let those who would harm the Victorious Ones’ teachings
chöden gyal lön khyimdak nam kyi tsok
Or rob their holders and dharma-observing kings, ministers and householders
dekyi trok nam ming tsam mepar dzö
Of their happiness be obliterated, so that not even their names remain.

tubpé tenpa rinchen dzinpa yi
For all who uphold the Sage’s precious teachings,
dampé kyebu gang na shyukpa nam
Sublime individuals, no matter where they may be,
kutsé ten ching tuk kyi shyedön drub
Let their lives be long, their visionary wishes fulfilled,
trinlé chok chur gyepar dzé du sol
And their activity extend in each of the ten directions.

jiktenpa kün yangdak tawar dang
Ensure that everyone in this world has right view,
pentsün pama tabü semden shying
Regards one another with parental affection,
tabtsö gyünché sönam pal gyi jor
Gives up conflict, prospers with the glory of merit,
tsering nemé dekyi denpar dzö
And lives a long and happy life in perfect health.

taktu dak gi khyö nyen chö ching tö
As I constantly rely on, offer to, and praise you,
solwa tabpé dendön ngöngyur né
Let the meaning of these prayers be realized,
parol mi dang mi min nöpa yi
And carry out your activity of triumphing over
yul lé nampar gyalwé trinlé dzö
All forms of hostility, human and non-human.

kündzob nakpo gandi dzinpa nyi
Relatively, you are the Black One who holds the gaṇḍī,1
döndam rangsem saltong ngowo ru
Ultimately, the clear and empty essence of my own mind.
ngoshé yiché deng tob salam drö
May I confidently recognize this, traverse paths and stages,
chusum dorjé dzin gyal dak drub dzö
And attain the thirteenth bhūmi as a victorious Vajra Holder.

In response to a request from my devoted student Gönpo Tseten, a monk from Hor Dongtok Monastery,
who offered an auspicious scarf and maṇḍala of silver, I, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, wrote
this in the presence of the bodhi tree at the Vajra Seat in the Land of the Āryas during
the eleventh month of the Fire Bird year. May virtue abound! Sarva maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bla ma gur mgon gyi gsol 'debs phrin bcol/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 11: 71–72
↑ The gaṇḍī staff, which Mahākāla Pañjaranātha holds, is a piece of wood that may be struck,
rather like a gong, to summon monks to assemblies.